PROPER OF THE SEASON

Hymns and Missal Sequences, Preface). Several of the
clear-cut, doctrinal statements that are found in the Lauda
Sion occur again and again in the other hymns. To obviate
repetitions in the N otes, and to afford additional aids to
the proper understanding of the hymns, the following doc-
trinal statements from authoritative sources may be found
useful:

1. “It has always been believed in the Church of God that
immediately after the consecration, the true Body of Our

'Lord and His true Blood exist under the species of bread

and wine, together with His Soul and Divinity: the Body
under the species of bread, and the Blood under the species
of wine, by force of the words3 but the Body under the
species of wine, and the Blood under the species of bread,
and the Soul under both by force of the natural connection
and concomitance by which the parts of the Lord Christ,
who rose from the dead to die no more, are linked together:
and the Divinity by reason of Its admirable Hypostatic
Union with the Body and Soul. Wherefore it is most true
that there is as much contained under either species as
under both, for Christ exists whole and entire under the
species of bread, and under every part of the species, whole
too and entire under the species of wine and under its
parts'' (Council of Trent‚ Sess. 13, Ch. 3. Quoted from
the Outlines of Doymatic Theoloyy, by Father Hunter, SJ.
Vol. 3, p. 258).

2. The following is from the Profession of Faith of Pope
Pius IV, which was drawn up shortly after the conclusion
of the Council of Trent: ‘⁴1 profess . . . . that in the
most Holy Sacrament of the Eucharist, there is truly,
really, and substantially, the Body and Blood, together
with the Soul and Divinity of our Lord J esus Christ, and
that there is made a conversion of the whole substance of
the bread into the Body, and of the whole substance of the
wine into the Blood; which conversion the Catholic Church
callsTransubstantiation. I also confess, that under either
kind alone, Christ is received whole and entire, and a true
Sacrament'' (From Father Devine's The Creed Explained‚

3. “Since the species of bread and wine are not the

174

